title: 36.423 X2AP读书笔记
date: 2015-12-10 16:36:31
tags: [LTE, X2AP]
---

# 书名
3GPP TS 36.423 X2 application protocol (X2AP)
 
# 第一阶段
## 分类
>确定书的种类和分类
 
3GPP协议文档， 对X2协议的描述 
 
## 中心思想
>整本书在谈什么
 
S1AP相关信息。 Services, Functions, Procedures, Elements etc.
 
<!--more-->

## 提纲
>按照顺序与关系，列出全书的重要部分。将全书的纲要拟出来之后，再将各部分的纲要也一一列出。
 
### Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
**Elementary Procedure**: X2AP protocol consists of Elementary Procedures (EPs). An X2AP Elementary Procedure is a unit of interaction **between two eNBs**. Two kinds of EPs are used:
* Class 1: Elementary Procedures with response (success or failure),
* Class 2: Elementary Procedures without response.
 
### General
* **Procedure** the first letters in each word in upper case characters followed by the word "procedure", e.g.  Handover Preparation procedure.
* **Message** the MESSAGE NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word "message", e.g. HANDOVER REQUEST message.
* **IE** the Information Element Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the abbreviation "IE", e.g. E-RAB ID IE.
* **Value of IE**  "Value" is written as it is specified in sub clause 9.2 enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. "Value".
 
### X2AP services
The present clause describes the services an eNB offers to its neighbours.
#### X2AP procedure modules
The X2 interface X2AP procedures are divided into two modules as follows:
1. X2AP Basic Mobility Procedures;
2. X2AP Global Procedures;
 
The X2AP Basic Mobility Procedures module contains procedures used to handle the UE mobility within E-UTRAN.
The Global Procedures module contains procedures that are not related to a specific UE. The procedures in this module are in contrast to the above module involving two peer eNBs.
 
#### Parallel transactions
Unless explicitly indicated in the procedure specification, at any instance in time one protocol peer shall have a maximum of one ongoing X2AP procedure related to a certain UE.
 
#### Services expected from signalling transport
The signalling connection shall provide in sequence delivery of X2AP messages. X2AP shall be notified if the signalling connection breaks.
 
### Functions of X2AP
|Function|Elementary Procedure(s) |
|:--|:--|
|Mobility Management | a) Handover Preparation<BR>b) SN Status Transfer<BR>c) UE Context Release<BR>d) Handover Cancel  |
|Load Management |a) Load Indication<BR>b) Resource Status Reporting Initiation<BR>c) Resource Status Reporting |
|Reporting of General Error Situations |Error Indication |
|Resetting the X2 |Reset|
|Setting up the X2 |X2 Setup |
|eNB Configuration Update |a) eNB Configuration Update<BR>b) Cell Activation |
|Mobility Parameters Management |Mobility Settings Change |
|Mobility Robustness Optimisation |a) Radio Link Failure Indication<BR>b) Handover Report |
|Energy Saving |a) eNB Configuration Update<BR>b) Cell Activation |
 
### X2AP procedures
 
#### Handover Preparation
This procedure is used to establish necessary resources in an eNB for an incoming handover.
UE-associated signalling.
 
#### SN Status Transfer
The purpose of the SN Status Transfer procedure is to transfer the uplink PDCP SN and HFN receiver status and the downlink PDCP SN and HFN transmitter status from the source to the target eNB during an X2 handover for each respective E-RAB for which PDCP SN and HFN status preservation applies.
The procedure uses UE-associated signalling.
 
#### UE Context Release
The UE Context Release procedure is initiated by the target eNB to signal to indicate the source eNB that radio and control plane resources for the handed over UE context are allowed to be released.
The procedure uses UE-associated signalling.
 
#### Handover Cancel
The Handover Cancel procedure is used to enable a source eNB to cancel an ongoing handover preparation or an already prepared handover.
The procedure uses UE-associated signalling.
 
### Global Procedures
 
#### Load Indication
The purpose of the Load Indication procedure is to transfer load and interference co-ordination information between eNBs controlling intra-frequency neighboring cells.
The procedure uses non UE-associated signalling.
 
#### Error Indication
The Error Indication procedure is initiated by an eNB to report detected errors in one incoming message, provided they cannot be reported by an appropriate failure message.
If the error situation arises due to reception of a message utilising UE associated signalling, then the Error Indication procedure uses UE-associated signalling. Otherwise the procedure uses non UE-associated signalling.
 
#### X2 Setup
The purpose of the X2 Setup procedure is to exchange application level configuration data needed for two eNBs to interoperate correctly over the X2 interface.
This procedure erases any existing application level configuration data in the two nodes and replaces it by the one received.
This procedure also resets the X2 interface like a Reset procedure would do.
The procedure uses non UE-associated signalling.
 
#### Reset
The purpose of the Reset procedure is to align the resources in eNB1 and eNB2 in the event of an abnormal failure. The procedure resets the X2 interface. This procedure doesn’t affect the application level configuration data exchanged during the X2 Setup procedure.
The procedure uses non UE-associated signalling.
 
#### eNB Configuration Update
The purpose of the eNB Configuration Update procedure is to update application level configuration data needed for two eNBs to interoperate correctly over the X2 interface.
The procedure uses non UE-associated signalling.
 
#### Resource Status Reporting Initiation
This procedure is used by an eNB to request the reporting of load measurements to another eNB.
The procedure uses non UE-associated signalling.
 
#### Resource Status Reporting
This procedure is initiated by eNB 2  to report the result of measurements requested by eNB 1  using the Resource Status Reporting Initiation.
The procedure uses non UE-associated signalling.
 
#### Mobility Settings Change
This procedure enables an eNB to negotiate the handover trigger settings with a peer eNB controlling neighbouring cells.
The procedure uses non UE-associated signalling.
 
#### Radio Link Failure Indication
The purpose of the Radio Link Failure Indication procedure is to transfer information regarding RRC re-establishment attempts between eNBs controlling neighbouring cells.    The signalling takes place from the eNB at which a re-establishment attempt is made to an eNB to which the UE concerned may have previously been attached prior to radio link failure. This may aid the detection of handover failure cases (TS 36.300 [15]). 
The procedure uses non UE-associated signalling.
 
#### Handover Report
The purpose of the Handover Report procedure is to transfer mobility related information between eNBs controlling neighbouring cells.   
The procedure uses non UE-associated signalling.
 
#### Cell Activation
The purpose of the Cell Activation procedure is to request to a neighbouring eNB to switch on one or more cells, previously reported as inactive due to energy saving reasons.
The procedure uses non UE-associated signalling.
 
### Elements for X2AP Communication
abbr.
 
### Information Element definitions
The GTP Tunnel Endpoint IE identifies an X2 transport bearer or the S-GW endpoint of the S1 transport bearer associated to an E-RAB. It contains a Transport Layer Address and a GTP Tunnel Endpoint Identifier. The Transport Layer Address is an IP address to be used for the X2 user plane transport or for the S1 user plane transport.
The GTP Tunnel Endpoint Identifier is to be used for the user plane transport between eNB and the S-GW or between eNBs.
 
 
## 问题
>作者在问的问题，或者作者想要解决的问题。
 
 
# 第二阶段
## 关键字
>诠释作者使用的关键字，与作者达成共识
 
 
## 重要句子
>从重要的句子中抓出主旨
 
 
## 重新架构
>找出作者的论述，重新架构这些论述的前因后果，以明白作者的主张。
 
 
## 确定问题
>确定作者已经解决了哪些问题，还有哪些问题是未解决的。在未解决的问题中，哪些是作者认为自己无法解决的。
 
 
